Gaslight

Upstream flaring analysis for the Permian Basin. Cross-references
satellite detections with public permit records, well locations,
and methane plume observations.

  VIIRS Nightfire (satellite flares)
  + Sentinel-2 (20m resolution imagery)
  + SWR 32 exception permits (Texas RRC)
  + RRC well locations (EBCDIC bulk files)
  + OTLS survey polygons (lease boundaries)
  + Carbon Mapper / IMEO methane plumes
  ─────────────────────────────────────
  → flaring analysis + interactive map


How It Works

For each satellite-detected flare, gaslight finds permits and wells
within 375m (the VIIRS M-band pixel radius). Operator attribution
uses combined evidence from permits and wells — permits take priority;
confidence is sole/majority/contested based on how dominant the
attributed operator is across all nearby records.

Sentinel-2 enhancement runs per-flare deep analysis at 20m resolution,
clustering detections and matching them to nearby permits for permit
coverage analysis.

Leases are built from OTLS survey polygons containing each lease's
wells. VNF sites within a lease footprint get allocated to that
lease, enabling cross-reference with self-reported flaring volumes.

Methane plumes from Carbon Mapper and IMEO are matched to wells and
VNF sites, classified as flaring, unlit, wellpad, or unmatched.


Setup

  uv sync
  uv run playwright install chromium

Requires: uv, duckdb CLI, Playwright (for RRC downloads)
Optional: EOG credentials in .env for VNF data


Usage

  make db         Full pipeline: schema → load → transform → views
  make refresh    Rebuild database from scratch
  make export     Export parquets for web app
  make serve      Dev server on :8080
  make help       All targets

  duckdb data/dark_flaring.duckdb   Interactive queries


Scrapers

  make permits          SWR 32 permit metadata
  make permit-details   Permit detail pages → CSVs
  make rrc              EBCDIC well records + OTLS surveys
  make vnf              VIIRS Nightfire profiles (EOG)
  make plumes           Carbon Mapper + IMEO methane plumes


Project Structure

  scripts/            Scrapers, parsers, fetchers
  queries/            SQL pipeline (load → rrc → flaring → export)
  data/               Database, CSVs, parquets (gitignored)
  web/                Interactive map (MapLibre GL + DuckDB WASM)
    vendor/           Vendored JS deps (maplibre-gl, duckdb-wasm, fonts)
    vendor/s2-flares/ Sentinel-2 detection library (git submodule)
    data/             Exported parquets (flares, permits, wells, plumes, detections)

Zero npm dependencies. MapLibre GL and DuckDB WASM are vendored
via scripts/vendor.sh. Everything runs client-side.


Deployment

  make vendor     Download vendored JS deps
  make export     Export data for web app

Push to main to deploy via GitHub Pages.
